# Capstone - the tale of two cities Manhattan and Toronto
Capstone project for coursera

#Introduction
The project will investigate the neighborhoods of Manhattan (substitute for New York City) and the city of Toronto using Foursquare database and determine how similar or dissimilar they are. Manhattan and the city of Toronto are both very diverse and the financial capitals of their respective countries. Both cities should share some similar patterns of venue categories and customers' behavior (e.g. frequent visit venues) due to their similarities. Despite their similarity, there will always be some differences between Manhattan and the city of Toronto which is useful for corporations to conduct their business plans specifically for different cities. This project aims to discover the similarity and dissimilarity of these two cities and provide a clearer picture for corporations for their target business or product plan meeting different cities' requirements. For corporations want to start their business in one or both of these two cities, they can study the distribution of venue types and make a better decision after analyzing the data.

#Data
The project will extract neighborhood data from wikipedia and getting geographic coordinates from csv files from website "https://cocl.us/Geospatial_data". After cleaning the data, the neighborhood data will be utilized to sending requests to Foursqure API to get nearby venues (using location data). The nearby venues data will then be cleaned and analyzed in term of frequency of occurrence across all neighborhoods of the two cities to show the similarity and dissimilarity between the two cities.

#Methodology
Data of frequency of occurrence of different venues type of the two cities will be analyzed using Jaccard similarity, distance model, rank correlation, concentration testing. The top 10 venues of both dataset will be further analyzed using data visualization and other statistical testing to demonstrate how corporations can do to achieve their target business or product plan.

#Results
Judging from the data gathered and cleaned, Manhattan and Toronto shares 52% similarity in terms of venue types across their neighborhoods using Jaccard similarity test. Further analyzing the intersection part of their venue types, the frequency of occurrence for the same venue types deviate a lot and account for majority of the dissimilarity. Judging from concentration tests, there's significant difference of top venue occurrence in Toronto compared to Manhattan meaning that these two cities have a great difference in top venue types. 

#Discussion
From the top 10 venue types for the two cities (in terms of frequency for the below discussion), we can see that restaurant occupies the most for both cities where Manhattan has more restaurants than Toronto for sure. On the other hand, Toronto has more Bar, Cafe and coffee shop than Manhattan which may indicate Toronto citizens prefer more relaxing activities like coffee time or beer time. Manhattan also saw Gym in top 10 venue types which may indicate Manhattan people enjoy exercise more than Toronto people while Toronto saw more hotels which may indicate better tourism there. Lastly, we can see similar figures for Bakery and Park which may indicate similar favorite for both cities and city planning. Therefore, for corporations who want to run business in these two cities, they need to consider the different preference of people living there and competition existed. From the first glance, Manhattan may be a good place to run restaurants. In order to outstand among all restaurants, we notice that Manhattan’s restaurants are concentrated in only limited style and hence a unique style other than those already popular there may be key to succeed. On the other hand, people may be better to run leisure type of Café in Toronto or corporations can sell Café related equipment and raw materials to the Café there to make a profit.

#Conclusion
Manhattan and the city of Toronto are both very diverse and the financial capitals of their respective countries. Despite of their similar status for their countries, they share similarity of venue types while there’re significant differences between them. Corporates may need further analyze the characteristics of both cities if they want to start a new business there and same business may not be working in both cities although they may in either one of them.
